I’ve continued to scour for the prompt that, if no one is guiding me, the thing I want to pursue. In the summer, I decided to stay on campus. One day, I was captivated by the poster, describing functionalizing gold nanocrystals with DNA origami, for it showcased a topic that involved the intersection between chemistry, biology, and electrical engineering. I started developing my own prototypes. I researched how to functionalize proteins that viruses have high affinity to, such as sialylated glycans and integrins, to nanostructures to trap viruses. Recognizing cancerous cells have a slower rate of mutation compared to viruses, I also looked into capturing circulating tumor cells. It is here I came across the use of microfluidics and bioelectronics to separate cancerous cells from healthy cells by their diverging electric, biophysical, and biochemical properties. As I continued researching these fields, it was like a door suddenly appeared on a wall, gradually opened, and I entered into a fantastical world. In starting to explore this world, I realized that there were many barriers that needed to be solved these diagnostic, therapeutic, and analysis tools to be translatable to clinic, such as nanostructures high surface area-to-volume ratio may lead to inconsistency in assembly and unintended reactivity and interfacial effects, ladder geometry, and device materials and reagents affect scaling production. The more challenges I saw, the more I wanted to do this field, as I saw that solving may of these challenges required an interdisciplinary approach and by fixing the composite parts could cumulatively/aggregatively improve these tools to help and reach people. I envision becoming an investigator that makes the potential I’ve seen into reality/realizes/actualizes the potential, translating so that its application is accessible and reachable to patients. From assembling nanoparticles to using impedance signatures to characterize permeability or employ electric currents to separate cell populations, I believe the WVU REU RAREST program, will provide me the hands-on experience/experiential to start solving these challenges and continue helping me on this journey as an aspiring investigator.
Pathways that underpinned physiological changes initiated my fascination in biology. The Stanford iGEM program was my entryway into learning the lab techniques to characterize pathways and employ these pathways for therapeutics. The Stanford iGEM team’s project focused on competitively inhibiting DUX4-FL with a truncated isoform as a potential therapy for Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy (FSHD). To create a better experimental model than transfecting transiently, I collaborated with the team to develop a C2C12 cell line to express mScarlet DUX4 reporter by constructing DUX4 reporter plasmids with hygromycin resistance gene and using antibiotic selection to select for cells transfected with DUX4 reporter. I also embraced a daily 3-hour commute to solidify my skills in Python. A main area I focused on was masking MRI images with the goal to segment disease-related changes indicated by hyperintensity. Ultimately, I decided to use OtsuThreshold, which calculates a threshold to separate an image into foreground and background. This internship laid my engineering foundation to transform the ideas in my mind into a tangible form. However, a question from one of my teammates continued to stick in my mind: how do I create my own ideas?
I started to find an answer to her question when I took organic chemistry. Practicing formulating the main intermediate products in various reactions, rearranging rings in sugars, and more gradually taught me to recall relevant details from past questions and ascertain underlying principles to solve new, unfamiliar questions. Organic chemistry equipped me to carefully consider fundamental concepts and revise wrong judgments to build the right intuition as a basis to make out of the box ideas feasible for they are constructed from scientific principles. This thinking process/analytical method guided me to answer final exam questions regarding a research group’s development of a commercial synthesis for a drug to treat renal anemia in chronic kidney disease patients. When my graded copy of the exam was returned to me a week later, I noticed that questions involving the group’s synthesis totaled for 85% of the final exam. Curious about why my instructor wanted us to apply the concepts we learned in class to thoroughly investigate the synthesis, I found the paper my professor referenced, specifically looking into their synthesis of dichlorotriazolopyridine as a key intermediate to address challenges in medicinal chemistry, namely avoiding a cryogenic reaction and column purification. I realized that from formulating the main intermediates to fuse a 5-membered heterocycle to a pyridine by considering the reactivities and mechanistic steps using the reagent, trimethyl orthoformate, in the exam and the reagent combinations the scientists’ used to form triazolopyridine ring, ultimately settling on a condensation and cyclization reaction using trifluoroacetic anhydride and MeCN that produced the highest yield reminding me of the use of trifluoroacetic acid in a protection mechanism for peptide synthesis tested in the exam, the details learned from what materials used to synthetic routes can help innovate diagnostic and therapeutic tools. Increasing yield, stability and reproducibility, and interactions between targeted compounds and reducing unexpected/not desired interactions seen in organic chemistry can be applied to nanoscience and microfluidics. For example, detecting B. burgdorferi in clinical setting with low concentrations and background noise of high concentrations of non-target proteins and cells, and increasing lasting use given degradation of biorecognition elements such as antibodies and strong binding of antibody to Borrelia antigen leading to clogging and fouling. Realizing manufacturing processes can be improved, costs reduced, and even their efficacy maintained or enhanced is what I’ve learned in organic chemistry and what I hope to continue learning at the WVU REU program.
My experience building analytical methods in organic chemistry was complemented by being a research apprentice at the Fidler Lab at the UCSF CVRI, where I learned the importance of a think-build-test cycle in honing questions in research. After assisting on various segments of the lab’s CRISPR screening workflow, from harvesting terminal blood and bone marrow, to transplanting transfected Cas9+ hematopoietic stem cells with CRISPR knockout guides into lethally irradiated Ldlr-/- mice to conducting downstream analysis doing immunofluorescence staining, my PI invited me to investigate the role of a gene, Dmxl1, in immune cells in atherosclerosis and present a poster at the Bay Area Cardiovascular Symposium. I hypothesized that CRISPR knockout of Dmxl1 in hematopoietic stem cells would increase the formation of atherosclerotic plaque because DMXL1 through macrophage dysfunction assists V-ATPase assembly and V-ATPase is involved in the acidification of lysosomes in macrophages. However, there was an unexpected result, as many of the mice in the cohort grew sick or died. From my literature view, I had found that global knock-out of Dmxl1 was embryonic lethal, so I inferred that knock-out of Dmxl1 in hematopoietic cells may not be a stable experimental model. Since the experiments showed that knock-out of Dmxl1 was not viable, I focused on finding new pathways. From referencing Genome-Wide Associated Study, we identified another loci associated with ASCVD and a corresponding gene with more direct relation to myeloid dysfunction to continue our project to characterize genes and their pathways to drive inflammatory macrophage accumulation in atheromas. Previously assisting on experiments in the lab’s CRISPR screening workflow in a non-sequential order and then conducting them in a sequential order to pursue my own question and adapting unexpected results laid the foundation for me to plan experimental workflows to investigate and employ biological pathways as therapeutic targets and for proof-of-concepts. At the WVU REU program, I hope to apply the skills I’ve learned in designing and conducting experiments in workflow to model biological environment and test therapies, such as in the project/Katt Lab analyzing impedance signatures from modeling ischemic stroke and inhibiting proinflammatory pathways.
I hope to continue cultivating and applying my experimental and computational skills and foundation in chemistry, biology, and math to develop therapies and other tools to help people by tackling the engineering challenges to make ideas into reality. I envision assembling nanoparticles and fabricating biomaterials to engage with a team to improve the efficacy and precision of payload delivery, studying and modeling cellular and molecular pathways including microenvironments and their interactions, migration, and proliferation, and collaborate on how the immune system affects different biological systems and can be employed in therapeutics and other approaches to help people. 

