   Introduction paragraph
 My fascination with nanoscience, microfluidics, and all things bioengineering began as a collection of small insights. Little by little, they intertwined and merged, each moment contributing to a growing realization: this was the field where I wanted to put down roots. In summer 2025, I decided to stay in the Bay Area because I received an offer to continue being a research apprentice/doing research at the Fidler Lab at the UCSF Cardiovascular Research Institute. I was eager to learn more skills by/and be able to spend[ing] extended periods of time in the lab conducting experiments. At the same time, I wanted to find something. Had been doing various kinds of research in different disciplines such as science, neuroscience, English, philosophy since high school, and found. Answer prompts never answer the question that ticks something in me, the question that motivates me. The thing I’m trying to find is still missing. Never have a prompt that I have created for myself, what am I individually, if no one is guiding or telling me to do, what do I want to explore. Underneath, mind, there is a question, there is a question that I still don’t know what it is and don’t know my answer to that question. Walk through a building every morning to my 8:00 organic chemistry lecture, always a bunch of people in that building so never stop to look at the posters. During the summer, with fewer people, stopped and looked at the poster.
In the summer of 2025, I decided to stay in the Bay Area because I received an offer to continue my research at the Fiedler Lab at the Cardiovascular Institute of UC San Francisco. I was eager to learn more skills and be able to spend extended periods of time in the lab conducting experiments.
My fascination with nanostructures, microfluidics, and biomaterials began when...came up unexpectedly. In the Summer of 2025, I decided to stay in the Bay Area as I was given the opportunity to continue doing research with the Fidler Lab at UCSF Cardiovascular Research Institute. I wanted to learn more skills, consistently be in the lab to do multi-day experiments. Had been doing various kinds of research in different disciplines such as science, neuroscience, English, philosophy since high school, and found
Prompt and you answer the prompt, from oneself
Answer prompts never answer the question that ticks something in me, the question that motivates me. The thing I’m trying to find is still missing. Never have a prompt that I have created for myself, what am I individually, if no one is guiding or telling me to do, what do I want to explore.
Underneath, mind, there is a question, there is a question that I still don’t know what it is and don’t know my answer to that question.
  
   Introduction paragraph
 I decided not to go home in Summer 2025 because I wanted to find an idea/research area that would be my passion/I wanted to find my passion/I wanted to find an idea that I would want to work on/find something.
Everything I enjoy.
Spark
UCSF to do labs, so symposium, stayed in the area to continue doing research, learn more.
Walk through a building every morning to my 8:00 organic chemistry lecture, always a bunch of people in that building so never stop to look at the posters. During the summer, with fewer people, stopped and looked at the poster.
Intersection between electrical engineering, biology, chemistry, physics to build something that could help people.
Research into DNA origami Functionalization Overhangs
Antigens, adjuvants
Signal for bugs
We need to have our own idea, make our own thing. At the time, my mom also came down with a cold, was very sick, and she talked “just want to grab the virus and take it out.” From her saying that and inspired by antigens capture cancerous cells, I was thinking maybe we could actually capture the virus by having antigens functionalized on DNA origami. Even though the idea was rudimentary and later on when doing a lot of research I realized there were many things I had to consider like enzymatic degradation, consistency of making the DNA origami shape, how to assemble the DNA origami, and what DNA origami shape would be optimal to capture virus, and also the biology of viruses that they more rapid rate of mutation and cancer from the direction of tumor circulating cells and simulating the tumor microenvironment to attract and capture cancerous cells, that night having that rudimentary idea was like seeing a door materialize on a wall that had never had a door and the door starting to open a little bit, and with more research that coming days opening that door and entering into that world that looked fantastical, almost Alice-in-Wonderland like.
In learning about all the things I need to consider, I realize there is a whole world of things that I need to learn, consider, think about, work on, apply to these labs, explore, put into the foot into the the lab, get my hands dirty
See a small thing, and the world just keeps on expanding the more I explore, stretching/expanding.
From that small bud of light, came rays of new paths to explore
Small things here and there, intertwine, prepare, build for me to understand this is the field I wanted to do.
Bathroom, shower, wake up in the morning in 6 am to think about something
Bioengineering and the research topics/fields/areas in bioengineering interest me because there is both the innovation, frontier, inventing something new but also built on scientific principles and therefore is not scientific fiction but feasible and can help people.
  
   Introduction paragraph
 We need to have our own ideas and create our own things. At that time, my mother also had a cold, and she was very sick. She said, "I really want to catch the virus and get it out." Inspired by her words, and considering that antigens can capture cancer cells, I thought that perhaps we could capture viruses by functionalizing antigens on DNA origami. Although the initial idea was still very rough, after a lot of research, I realized that there were many things to consider, such as enzymatic degradation, the stability of the DNA origami structure, how to assemble the DNA origami structure, which DNA origami structure is best suited for capturing viruses, and the biological characteristics of viruses, such as their rapid mutation and carcinogenic effects in the direction of circulating tumor cells, and how to simulate the tumor microenvironment to attract and capture cancer cells. But that night, when I had this initial idea, it was like seeing a door suddenly appear on a wall that originally had no door, and that door began to slowly open. In the following days, as the research deepened, I opened that door and entered a fantastic world, almost like Alice in Wonderland.
As I considered all the necessary aspects, I realized the vastness of the field I needed to learn, think, research, practice, apply in the lab, explore, truly step into the lab, and experience firsthand.
Seeing a tiny thing, as I delved deeper into my exploration, the world seemed to expand and extend.
From that tiny budding inspiration, the light of exploring new paths blossomed.
Little by little, intertwined and interwoven, they ultimately converged into the field I understood—the field I wanted to work in. Bathroom, shower, waking up at six in the morning, pondering something.
Bioengineering and its research topics/fields attract me because they are both innovative, cutting-edge, and inventive, yet built on scientific principles; therefore, they are not science fiction, but something practical and capable of benefiting humanity.
  
   Personal Statement Stanford iGEM Paragraph
 I didn’t know I would find my passion two years before when I joined the Stanford iGEM in the summer 2024. Pathways that regulated homeostasis or underpinned physiological changes [initially/initiated] drove my fascination in biology. This program/Stanford iGEM internship program was my entry way into learning the lab techniques to characterize pathways I had loved reading in textbooks and begin to employ these pathways for therapeutics. The team’s project focused on competitively inhibiting DUX4-fl with a truncated isoform as a potential therapy for Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy (FSHD). A difficulty with any drug therapy for FSHD is that DUX4-fl can diffuse across multi-nucleated muscle cells/myotubes and in sporadic bursts. To create a better experimental model than transfecting transiently, I helped in creating a C2C12 cell line stably expressing mScarlet DUX4 reporter by constructing DUX4 reporter plasmids with hygromycin resistance gene and using antibiotic selection to select for cells that had been transfected with DUX4 reporter. Since there is clinical variability in FSHD patients, the team also had a side project to investigate whether we could analyze MRI images to characterize FSHD disease progression and explore where and when to deliver the therapy– detected by STIR+ signals, for example–that is less invasive than biopsies. I specifically worked on researching and creating a pipeline to preprocess MRI images. I embraced solidifying my skills in Python, writing functions, while and for loops, list comprehensions, dictionaries, and then practiced implementing code to solve problems through Kaggle during my daily 3-hour commute. I worked mainly on bias correct, while gaining more experience with Matplotlib and NumPy, SimpleITK, and introduction into PyTorch, and learned the general approach to most of the steps of MRI preprocessing, such as resampling, denoising, masking, and registration by reading readthedocs SimpleITK online manual and interpreting sample code on Github. While doing the code for bias correction, I also enjoyed figuring out the math that underpinned code. For example, b-spline functions, which has to do with smoothness, degree, and knot sequences and these parameters help in curve-fitting. Discovering how concepts I had learned in multivariable calculus and linear algebra were applied to quantifying MRI images invigorates me to continue strengthening my foundation in pure math. Ground my thinking in terms of program came from math.
Read library its functions and how did they arrive at the functions, what was the math and computation behind a function
Learned the different processes, also why denoising is important and what causes noise due to vectors, which reminded me of gradients I had learned in multivariable calculus (curve, Green’s theorem)
I did some entrepreneurship work when the team was thinking about going that route. I started planning and researching for the market analysis for the business plan, as well as looked into intellectual property and patenting. I found a patent by Mitsuhashi that talked about how DUX4-s could be used as a competitive inhibitor for DUX4-fl (though their overall patent was more focused on antisense oligonucleotides) discussed with team after mentor meeting, as the team started to do research on patents to figure out whether could patent. I was inspired by listening to some of the iGEM team members discuss their experience with patient interviews, so in discussions with Mafer, I suggested that iGEM team could host a program similar to SiBRP for young children diagnosed with FSHD so that they can learn more about FSHD and, if they are interested, start getting into research.
Transform the ideas in my mind into a tangible form in which other people can be in discourse with, connect with, and interact with.
Transform the ideas into written form on the page
Transform the ideas in my mind into physical, tangible form in this world
Labs to provide evidence of a concept, proof-of-concept to show that something exists, or can become a therapy
Even though a lot of growth, still have this question stick in my mind and didn’t know how to respond to this question yet.
Teammates question: how to create your own idea?
  
   Fidler Lab Paragraph
 My experience building analytical methods in organic chemistry was complemented by being a research apprentice at the Fidler Lab investigating the mechanisms in which clonal hematopoiesis–the expansion of hematopoietic stem cells containing somatic mutations–drives atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and role of genes on immune cells in atherosclerotic plaques for therapeutic targets. When I first entered the lab, I helped out on various segments of the research associate’s and post-doctorate’s experimental workflows in a non-sequential order, where I learned to independently figure out the order and the purpose of each experiment and ask clarifying questions when team members had a few minutes. For example, I’ve assisted a research associate on their project by conducting qPCR, H&E staining and immunohistochemistry to see whether a gene is a regulator of macrophage accumulation in atheromas. Assisting my research associate had prepared me to investigate a gene, Dmxl1, from start to finish. Efficiently completing experiments on qPCR to validate that the gene was successfully knocked out, histological staining to quantify whether the gene increased the formation of atherosclerotic lesions and present these findings, as well as the experimental workflow at the Bay Area Cardiovascular Research Symposium within four weeks/a month from starting. Although I hypothesized that CRISPR knockout of Dmxl1 in hematopoietic stem cells increase formation of atherosclerotic plaque as there was preliminary data that suggested Dmxl1 was a gene correlated with coronary artery disease from a Genome-Wide Associated Study, there was unexpected result where deletion of Dmxl1 in hematopoietic cells had no significant change in lesion area and many of the mice in the cohort were growing sick or died. My study/literature review of Dmxl1, I had found out that a previous study presented that global knockout of Dmxl1 in kidney intercalated cells was embryonic lethal, so I inferred that conditional knockout of Dmxl1 may effect a physiological needed for living. After presenting the poster, we attempted/tried a Dmxl1 floxed mice cohort resulting in similar results where the mice grew sick or died prematurely, we pivoted to Asxl1 because...Since evidence suggests that Dmxl1 is not a viable pathway, I focused on finding new ones. Drawing on my experience in organic chemistry and my work in Fidler's lab... I began learning how to fix the pathway, get it working, and tackled the engineering challenges. This is the part I hope to study in my undergraduate research program (REU). Dream to work in bioengineering, nanoscience, microfluidics. Have done a lot of preparation, equipped with skills, prepared to work in this field. Done research into this field to realize things that need to be solved. Have the mindset, mentality and the skills to be able to start working in this field to solve these problems. This is why I want to be in the program. Core theme, 85% percent, small quiz. If you don’t understand the story, he is trying to investigate or tell with this problem, framework to solve, from the get go, you don’t have the tools or thinking framework to solve the problem.
Small scope, big picture,
  Fidler Lab Paragraph Outline
 Conclusion
Regardless if an exam or my research or experiments in Fidler lab or Stanford iGEM, dream big, there must be small segments and understand these small segments and solve these small segments to be able to solve the problems in these small segments and adaptability, agility, flexible to change the plan in order (sometimes need to fix and sometimes need to find a new solution, alternative) so it is dynamic. Overall, the ultimate goal, the big picture needs to solve. Need to get a good score, from idea to proof-of-concept to product. Need to understand both fundamentals and engineer, need to combine.
   