I’ve continued to scour for the prompt that, if no one is guiding me, the thing I want to pursue. In the summer, I stayed on campus. A poster on functionalizing gold nanocrystals with DNA origami captivated me, showcasing the intersection between chemistry, biology, and electrical engineering. I started developing prototypes. I researched functionalizing ligands, such as sialylated glycans, to nanostructures to capture viruses. To study how synthetic structures respond to their environment, I also looked into biosensors. I came across DNA origami functionalized with methylene blue tethered to a gold surface for electrochemical detection. As I continued researching, it was like a door suddenly appeared on a wall, gradually opened, and I entered into a fantastical world. Exploring this world, I realized there were barriers that needed to be solved. I envision becoming an investigator engineering nanostructures, therapeutics and delivery systems, and using computation to treat pathophysiologies, as solving composite parts, could improve these tools. I believe the USM Chemistry REU will prepare me to continue developing and translating innovations.
Organic chemistry equipped me to consider fundamental concepts and revise judgments to build the right intuition to make out of the box ideas feasible from scientific principles. Studying logic, number theory, and linear algebra and differential equations and learning topics like quadratic fields and Fourier series built core engineering process. Formulating intermediate products in reactions, rearranging rings in sugars using hemiacetal chemistry, seeing transamidation and transesterification in different contexts taught me to recall relevant details and ascertain underlying principles to solve new, unfamiliar questions. This problem-solving approach guided me to answer final exam questions regarding a research group's commercial synthesis for a drug treating renal anemia and further developed my analytical toolkit. Curious about this synthesis comprising 85% of our final exam, I found the paper my professor referenced. From deliberations on reagent combinations forming the triazolopyridine ring, particularly their use of trifluoroacetic anhydride and MeCN for the highest yield somewhat reminiscent of the use of trifluoroacetic acid in a protection mechanism for peptide synthesis tested in the exam, I realized that details learned from materials and synthetic routes innovate technologies. 
A deeper understanding of organic chemistry helped me to explore the details of constructing nanostructures and therapeutics. In looking into assembling nanostructures, I enjoyed seeing epoxide ring opening reactions show up in amine-terminated nucleotides nucleophilic attack to open epoxide strain, attaching oligonucleotides onto the GPTMS surface. In wanting to modify flexibility and strengthen structures, I explored silver-guanine DNA duplexes and circular dichroism spectroscopy, looking into circular polarization math and its application to analyze chirality in duplexes. From studying synthesizing structures, I hope to gain hands-on experience conducting experimental workflows in bottom-up and top-down engineering approaches at USM REU. I’m interested in, for example, the use of molecular imprinted polymer for selective analyte sensing. I enjoyed seeing electrophilic radical substitution I had studied in organic chemistry applied to the electropolymerization of para-aminobenzoic acid. The underlying reasoning to designing sensors or therapeutics, such as carboxylic acid group directing substitution to meta position, steric hindrance, and functional density theory modeling outward-facing carboxylic acid groups interacting with DMT and techniques, such as fabrication of electrochemiluminescence emitters or chemical doping of conjugated polymers and characterization by spectroscopy, is what I hope to engage in at the USM Chemistry REU.
My Stanford iGEM internship and Fidler Lab experiences taught me to characterize and employ pathways for therapeutics. The iGEM team developed a proof-of-concept therapy for Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy. To better model aberrant DUX4-FL expression in multinucleated myotubes, I collaborated to develop a C2C12 cell line expressing mScarlet DUX4 reporter and constructed hygromycin-resistant DUX4 reporter plasmids. I embraced a daily 3-hour commute to solidify Python skills. I masked MRI images using OtsuThreshold to segment hyperintensity, locating therapy delivery sites. At the Fidler Lab, assisting with the workflow non-sequentially, then sequentially and adapting to unexpected results, laid the foundation to realize innovations. My PI invited me to investigate Dmxl1's role in atherosclerosis and present a cardiovascular symposium poster. I hypothesized Dmxl1 CRISPR knockout increases plaque formation via macrophage dysfunction. However, Dmxl1 knockout in hematopoietic cells sickened mice. Referencing GWAS, we identified another gene characterizing macrophage accumulation in atheromas. Building on investigating biological pathways and studying peptide synthesis and catalytic triad mechanism, I hope to investigate and employ biosynthetic pathways to build a toolkit to treat diseases. For instance, investigating coenzyme A synthesis, such as PPAT interaction with ATP-RNA resulting in CoA-RNA and techniques like quantifying thiol-containing RNA samples. I’m also interested in engaging workflows to develop mRNA vaccines, such as modifying the 5’ UTR of less virulent ZIKV strain to induce immunological response against a more virulent strain.
From deciding to stay on campus during the summer, my want to explore led me to nanoscience and my further research showed the potential and challenges. I believe the USM REU can pave a path in my journey to graduate school and interdisciplinary pursuit in chemistry, biology, and computation to translate innovations into accessible technologies through improving biocompatibility, delivery, and efficacy.
