I’ve continued to scour for the prompt that, if no one is guiding me, the thing I want to pursue. In the summer, I stayed on campus. I was captivated by a poster, describing functionalizing gold nanocrystals with DNA origami. I started developing prototypes. I researched how to functionalize proteins that viruses have high affinity to, such as sialylated glycans, to nanostructures to capture viruses. I also came across the use of bioelectronics to separate cancerous cells from healthy cells by their diverging properties. As I continued researching, it was like a door suddenly appeared on a wall, gradually opened, and I entered into a fantastical world. In starting to explore this world, I realized there were barriers that needed to be solved, such as instability of assembly and unintended reactivity in biomaterials and nanoscience and microfluidics’ interfacial effects and reagents of the device affecting scaling production. I envision becoming an investigator engineering nanoscience, microfluidics, and biomaterials to treat pathophysiologies, as I saw that by solving composite parts, I could cumulatively improve these tools. I believe the UGA REU will prepare me to continue developing new tools and translate these innovations to be accessible to patients.
	The Stanford iGEM internship was my entryway into learning the techniques to characterize and employ pathways for therapeutics. The team focused on developing a therapy for Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy. To create a better model for aberrant expression of DUX4-FL in multinucleated myotubes, I collaborated to develop a C2C12 cell line to express mScarlet DUX4 reporter by using antibiotic selection and constructing DUX4 reporter plasmids with hygromycin resistance gene. I embraced a daily 3-hour commute to solidify my skills in Python. I focused on masking MRI images, using OtsuThreshold. This internship laid my engineering foundation to transform the ideas in my mind into a tangible form.
	Organic chemistry equipped me to revise judgments to build the right intuition to make out of the box ideas feasible. Curious about why my instructor wanted us to investigate a synthesis to treat renal anemia, which totaled 85% of our final exam, I found the paper my professor referenced. I examined their intermediate product synthesis to address medicinal chemistry challenges. Analyzing reagent combinations for the triazolopyridine ring, particularly their use of trifluoroacetic anhydride for highest yield, reminiscent of trifluoroacetic acid in peptide protection from the exam, showed me how synthetic route details innovate technologies. Organic chemistry taught me engineering processes can be improved for enhanced efficacy—a methodology I hope to continue pursuing at the UGA REU. I want to employ nitric oxide using different approaches to improve biocompatibility. For example, the synthesis of antibiotics with NO donors for anti-microbial effects, and a nucleophilic substitution between Cibacron Blue and dextran, which reduces coagulation and surface fouling. Also, balancing between sustaining NO-donor release and addressing toxicity. I’m also interested in building technologies to analyze biological entities. For instance, ferrofluids in iFCS include both diamagnetophoresis and magnetophoresis that focus on separating cells by size or magnetization, respectively, in one platform to isolate for circulating tumor cells.	
At the Fidler Lab, after assisting with the lab’s CRISPR workflow, my PI invited me to investigate Dmxl1's role in immune cells in atherosclerosis and present a poster at a cardiovascular symposium. I hypothesized CRISPR knockout of Dmxl1 would increase the formation of atherosclerotic plaque through macrophage dysfunction because DMXL1 facilitates V-ATPase assembly and V-ATPase acidifies lysosomes in macrophages. However, the mice in the cohort grew sick. Global Dmxl1 knockout was embryonic lethal, so I inferred knocking out Dmxl1 in hematopoietic cells was unstable. Referencing GWAS, we identified another gene to characterize pathways driving macrophage accumulation in atheromas. Learning from assisting in the lab's experimental workflow non-sequentially, then sequentially to pursue my own questions and adapting to unexpected results, at the UGA REU program, I hope to learn on-demand systems, such as drop-on-demand, to biofabricate osteoporosis disease progression using tricalcium phosphate, and build scaffolds that are responsive to the environment, for example, recruit cells through biochemical and mechanical signals.
	At UGA REU, I want to apply my experimental and computational skills to develop technologies by addressing the engineering challenges to make ideas into reality. I envision assembling nanoparticles and fabricating biomaterials and microfluidic platforms to engage with a team to improve delivery, and collaborate on how the immune system and other cellular pathways affect biological systems and can be employed to help people.





