1- Chapel Hill - UNC Hospitals


Cancer Hospital

Blood Donation Center: Assist staff to provide comfort and nourishment to donors, as well as miscellaneous clinical duties as needed. Available T-Th, 10am-5pm
Clinics: (Adult Infusion, Breast Imaging, Hematology, Radiation Oncology): Provide customer service and comfort to patients during treatment and assist staff as needed. Available M-F, 9am-2pm.
Nursing Units: Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with clerical/general duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Available 7 days/week, 9am-8pm.
Oncology Volunteer Navigator: *Currently not accepting applications. Collaborate with Cancer Hospital clinic and staff to provide patients and caregivers the education, resources and support needed to help them through their diagnosis and treatment. Spanish-speaking volunteers needed. Opportunity for virtual and in person. 2-year commitment required.
Patient Guide: Greet patients in the Cancer Hospital lobby and assist the staff with checking patients in for appointments, procedures and escorting them to clinics as needed. English and Spanish-speaking volunteers needed. Available M-F, 7am-2pm.
Carolina Conexiones

Conexiones Bilingual Navigator: Provide support to Spanish-speaking patients and their families in-person and over the phone. Tasks may include appointment reminder calls, registration and check-in support, and general navigation throughout the Medical Center. Service areas include pediatrics. Available M-F, 8am-5pm. Spanish fluency required. Click here to learn more about the Conexiones Program. Students & Community volunteers: 1 year commitment.
Conexiones Bilingual Patient Rounder: Provide support to, visit with, and round on patients in order to enhance their experience. Serve as a liaison between hospital staff and patients and their families/loved ones. Available daily, 8am-5pm. Spanish fluency and additional fluency assessments are required. Click here to learn more about the Conexiones Program. Students & Community volunteers: 1 year commitment.
Children's Hospital

Administrative Volunteer (Pediatric Therapies): Assist with resource organization and maintenance, donation retrieval, quality improvement projects, and other administrative tasks and provide assistance to therapists during treatment sessions. Available M-F, 8am-4pm.

2- Hillsborough Hospital

Art Heals: Provide art supplies, craft kits, and engage in craft activities with patients in their rooms to help occupy them during their hospital stay. This service is offered on pediatric units. Available 7 days/week, 10am-7pm
Children's Specialty Clinic: Assist staff with clerical/general duties; supervising and interacting with children primarily 0-18 years of age through various games and play activities. Available M-F, 9am-3pm.
Child Life: Maintain resources in the Child Life room, cleaning and organizing, provide toys/games/crafts to patients, assist Child Life staff with tasks and clerical duties. Available M-F, 9am-4pm.
Children’s Surgery and Sedation Center: Serve as a liaison between hospital staff and families/friends of patients. Keep families informed about the status of patients. Available M-F, 6am-5pm.
Cuddle & Play: *Currently not accepting applications. Cuddle, hold, rock, read to, and/or play with children of all ages. * Must be at least 20 years old and have some prior experience working with infants. Available 7 days/week, 9am-7pm. One year commitment.
Hospital School Tutor: *Currently not accepting applications. Assist teachers with instruction and tutoring of students in the UNC Hospitals School, ages preschool - 12th grade. Available M-F 10am-3pm.
Nursing Units: Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with clerical/general duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Available 7 days/week, 10am-8pm.
Pediatric Emergency Department: Perform supplemental services for the staff. Provide comfort and customer service to patients and families. Must be at least a junior or senior in college. Available 7 days/week 1pm-8pm.
Pediatric Oncology Clinic: Assist in supervising and interacting with children primarily 0-18 years of age through various games and play activities. Available M-F, 9am-3pm.
Pediatric Playroom: Interact with patients in a group or one-on-one basis; assist staff with the inpatient play facilities. Available weekdays with set hours between 10am and 7pm; weekend set hours between 11am and 5pm.
Ronald McDonald Family Room/Hospitality Kiosk: Assist families in the RMH room in the Children’s Hospital. The room has a lounge and kitchen area for parents to socialize, grab a snack, or just relax. Volunteers work at the front desk. You must apply with the RMH at amy@rmhctriangle.org before applying as a UNCH volunteer. Available 7 days/week, varying hours based on RMH needs.
Wonder Connection: Use hands-on science and nature-based activities to bring joy to pediatric patients aged 4-18 years. You must apply to Wonder Connection here before applying as a UNCH volunteer. Available times based on Wonder Connection's needs.
Kindness Cart: Provide items to patients and their families throughout the Children’s Hospital that provide joy and comfort. The cart will contain items such as food, drinks, toys, and activities. Available M-F, 11am-2pm.
Memorial Hospital

Clinics (GI Procedures): Provide customer service and comfort to patients before and after procedures (eg: colonoscopies, gall stone removal, and GI motility related procedures). Assist staff with stocking, cleaning, and any other assigned tasks. Available M-F, 9am-4:30pm.
Nursing Units (Burn, Cardiology, General Medicine, GI Surgery, Intensive Care, Orthopedics/Trauma, Pulmonary/Respiratory, Transplant, Vascular): Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with duties such as stocking, cleaning, and any other assigned tasks that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Please specify if you have an area of interest. Availability varies but typically M-F, 8am-7pm. Limited weekend availability.
Neurosciences Hospital

Behavioral Health Companions: Provide support, recreation, and company to psychiatric patients in the Behavioral Health Emergency Department. Assist staff with unit needs. Available 7 days/week, 9am-8pm
Emergency Department: Provide support, company, and customer service to adult patients in the General Population Emergency Department. Assist staff with unit needs. Must be at least a junior or senior if in college. Available 7 days/week, 9am-12am.
Nursing Units: (Acute Care, ENT/Neurosurgery, Psychiatry): Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with clerical/general duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Availability varies based on unit but typically 7 days/week, 9am-7pm.
Surgical Hospital

Preop and PACU Care Units: Currently not accepting applications. Assist with needs of patients before and after surgical procedures and aid staff in completing duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the unit. Available M-F, 8am-3pm.
Nursing Units (Surgical ICU/Trauma, Cardiovascular/Thoracic ICU, Surgical Observation): Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with duties such as stocking, cleaning, and any other assigned tasks that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Please specify if you have an area of interest. Availability varies based on unit, but typically M-F, 9am-7pm.
Women's Hospital

Doula: Currently not accepting applications. Doulas support the care given by clinical providers and friends and family and provide comfort to women in labor. Volunteers must be accepted into the Birth Partner program before applying to be a UNC volunteer. Email birthpartners@unc.edu to request an application for the Birth Partner program. Applications offered several times a year depending on need.
Nursing Units (Antepartum/L&D, Maternity Center): Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with clerical/general duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Availability varies depending on unit but typically M-F, 9am-7pm
Throughout UNC Hospitals and UNC Campus

3. Offsite from Medical Centers
Administrative Volunteer: (Burn Aftercare, Center for Nursing Excellence, Forensic Nursing, Nurse Staffing Systems, Occupational Health Services, Transplant Clinic, Urology Clinic and Volunteer Services): Provide assistance to office staff in the daily operations of the department such as scanning, filing, assembling informational packets, and designing flyers or other materials. Available M-F, 8am - 5pm.
Central Distribution: Assist with stocking and pulling items that are used throughout the medical center. Also may deliver supplies to needed areas. Available M-F, 9am-4pm
Clinic Aide at the UNC Family Medicine Center at Chapel Hill: Assist patients with check-in, wayfinding and generally feeling welcome in the clinic. Support staff by completing clerical tasks and helping maintain a safe, clean and clutter-free environment. NOT LOCATED IN THE MEDICAL CENTER Available M-F, 8am-5pm.
Guest Services: Greet and assist patients and guests with questions and wayfinding throughout the Medical Center, actively escorting them to desired areas as much as possible. English and Spanish-speaking volunteers needed. Available 7 days/week, 8 am-7pm.
Patient Deliveries and Activity Cart: Deliver flowers, mail, and food bags to patient rooms. Once deliveries are complete, volunteers will travel throughout the medical center to provide patients, families, and guests with activities such as crossword and Sudoku puzzles, word finds, coloring pages, and books/magazines. Must be a people person and able to walk long distances. Available M-F, 1-5pm.
Patient Relations: Assist the Patient Relations Department in visiting with hospital inpatients and assist with the execution of notary services. Students must commit to volunteer for 2 semesters back-to-back (eg: fall & spring OR summer & fall.) Available M-F, 9am– 4pm.
Nutrition and Food Services: Assist with ensuring that patients receive the correct food items on trays, possibly round on patients, and conduct patient surveys. Available M-F, 9am-12pm.
Rehabilitation Therapies - (ACC Clinic, Acute Care, Burn Center, Mental Health, and Peds): Support physical and occupational therapists with tasks such as resource organization and maintenance, admin duties, and ensuring a safe, clean environment. Available M-F, 9am-5pm.
Specialty Programs

Coffee and Tea Cart: Provide coffee and tea to patients and visitors in lobbies, clinics, and waiting rooms throughout the medical center. Lots of walking involved. Available M-F, 8am-2pm.
Compassionate Companions: Volunteers visit & provide companionship to long term patients who don’t have friends or family that can visit them. Must be a people person and a good listener. Must be 20 years old. 1 year commitment (including summer months). Available 7 days/week, 10am-7pm.
Door to Door: Provide musical entertainment for patients and visitors through DooR to DooR. Please contact David Binanay before applying at doortodoorunc@gmail.com. Available 7 days/week, 9am-8pm.
Relaxation Station: Provide hot tea and warm lavender-scented towels to patients, caregivers, and staff in inpatient areas for relaxation throughout the medical center. A unique way to not only cleanse the hands but experience a moment of tranquility and make someone’s day. Lots of walking involved. Available 7 days/week, 9am-8pm.
*Art Heals: Artistic volunteers go room to room and do craft/art projects with inpatients. Must be social and a self-starter. Available 7 days/week, 10am-7pm.
Compassionate Companions: Volunteers visit, socialize and read with patients. Must be a "people person!" Available 7 days/week, 10am-7pm.
Emergency Department: Assist the ED staff and act as a patient advocate to provide support during this stressful time for patients and their families and friends. Must be able to provide excellent customer service. Available 7 days/week 9am-11pm.
*Entertainer: Provide musical entertainment for patients and visitors through DooR to DooR. Please contact David Binanay before applying at doortodoorunc@gmail.com. Available 7 days/week 9am-8pm.
*GI Procedures: Help out in procedural unit in Medical Office Building with stocking, assisting patients and family members, and putting together patient packets. Available M-F 8am-3pm.
*Imaging: Support staff in the daily operations of the radiology department. Duties include: stocking rooms; assisting with patients and greeting and escorting patients to the imaging area. Available M-F 8am-4:30pm.
*Information Desks: Help Guest Services support patients and visitors in wayfinding and navigation. Help with registration and escorting patients and visitors to rooms and clinic visits. Must be friendly and sociable. Lots of walking involved. Available M-F 8am-4pm.
*Nursing Units (intensive care, family medicine, geriatric, orthopedic, rehab, surgery): Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with clerical/general duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Geriatric medicine has new opportunities for patient interaction. Available 7 days/week, 9am-8pm. Limited weekend availability.. Please specify if you have an area of interest.
*Nutrition and Food Services: Assist with ensuring that patients receive the correct food items on trays, possibly round on patients, and conduct patient surveys. Available M-F, 8am-7pm.
Oncology: *Currently not accepting applications. Greet and assist patients receiving chemotherapy and provide comfort items as requested. Volunteers also support clinic staff with stocking and miscellaneous duties. Available M-F 9am-3pm.Get Real and Heal! Provide support to an ongoing 12 week exercise program through Oncology Services to active treatment and survivorship patients. Available M, W, Th, 9:30-11:15am.
*Oshibori: Go door to door providing a warm lavender-scented towel to patients, staff and caregivers for relaxation. Oshibori is a unique way to not only to cleanse the hands but experience a moment of tranquility. Lots of walking involved. Available 7 days/week 10am-7pm.
*Rehabilitation Therapies (PT/OT): Support professional staff in providing physical therapy (PT) and occupational therapy (OT) services to designated patients in acute care and in our rehab units. Available M-F 8am-12pm and 1-4:30pm, Sat-Sun 8am-12pm.
University Physical Therapy in Hillsborough (off-site). Available M-F 8am-4:30pm.
*Supply Chain: Assist with stocking and pulling items that are used throughout the hospital. Also may deliver supplies to needed areas. Available M-F, 6am-3pm.
*Surgery Waiting Room and PACU: Serve as greeter and liaison between hospital staff and guests. Keep families informed about the status of their loved ones. Must be confident and comfortable around people. Available M-F 8am-6pm.
*Tea Time: Serve tea, coffee, and hot chocolate to patients, guest, and staff. Must be independent, social, and able to walk long distances. This is a great way to make someone's day and have patient contact. Available 7 days/week 10am-4pm.*
*Urology Clnic: Serve refreshments and snacks to patients and guests. Provide diversionary activities in this busy clinic. Help staff with clerical duties. Available M 7:45am-4pm.

Administrative Volunteer (Internal Medicine Clinic- Eastowne, ENT- Meadowmont, Outpatient Services Education- Friday Center, OB/GYN Clinics- Panther Creek and Weaver Crossing): Provide assistance to office staff in the daily operations of the department such as scanning, filing, assembling informational packets, clerical errands, and designing flyers or other materials. May have some patient interaction. Available M-F, 8am - 5pm.
Advanced Care at Home (Fordham Blvd.): Currently not accepting applications. Engage virtually with patients to provide social support and administer a pre-developed questionnaire. Available M-F, 8am - 5pm.
Chatham Hospital (Siler City): Perform supplemental services for the ED or Nursing Unit staff. Act as a patient advocate to provide support during their stressful time, provide customer service and comfort, and assist staff with clerical/general duties that are pertinent to the specialty of the floor. Volunteers may float between the ED and Nursing Unit depending on need. Available 7 days week, 9am-5pm.
Conexiones - Pediatric Bilingual Navigator (UNC Children's Primary, UNC Children's Specialty Clinic in Raleigh, and Specialty Care at Carolina Pointe II): Provide support to Spanish-speaking patients and their families. Tasks may include appointment reminder calls, registration and check-in support, and general navigation. Available Mon & Thurs, 8am-7pm, Tues, Wed, Fri 8am-5pm. Spanish fluency required. Click here to learn more about the Conexiones Program. One year commitment.
Crafters: Community Volunteers only. Sew/crochet/knit sock monkeys, "stuffies", and lap blankets for inpatients undergoing procedures in Chapel Hill. Meet 2 Thursdays a month from 10AM-12PM for quality control and to pick-up supplies. Must be a proficient. If interested, please contact volunteer liaison, Ruth Stutts, email: ruthstutts125@gmail.com. If you are a UNC Chapel Hill student, please consider Handmade by Heels.
Rehabilitation Therapies - Outpatient (PT/OT): Support physical and occupational therapists with tasks such as resource organization and maintenance, admin duties, and ensuring a safe, clean environment. Available M-F, 9am-5pm; limited Sat. availability at the CRC.
Areas include: UNC Center for Rehabilitation Care (CRC) on 15/501 (pediatric and adult), UNC Wellness Centers in Chapel Hill and Cary, Carolina Pointe II in Durham, Pelvic Clinic in Durham and the Faculty Clinic in Hillsborough.
UNC Children’s Specialty Services at Raleigh - Clinic: Assist in supervising and interacting with children primarily 0-18 years of age through various games and play activities. Assist clinical staff with clerical duties. Available M-TH, 8am-4:30pm.
UNC REACH Enhanced Primary Care (Raleigh): Currently not accepting applications. Support adults living with severe mental illness, substance use concerns, unstable housing and criminal justice involvement through basic needs and wellness programs. Available M-F, 8am-4pm with option for occasional evening dental clinic.
UNC Wellness Centers (Chapel Hill and NW Cary): Front desk assistant, helping with wayfinding; setting up appointments; rounding; cleaning equipment; greeting guests. Available M-F, 6am-8pm; Sat 8am-6pm, Su 8am-4pm.
Youth Behavioral Hospital (YBH) (Butner): Visit with and round on patients in order to enhance their experience and assist staff with clerical/general duties at this psychiatric inpatient child and adolescent hospital. Available: M-F, 8am-4:30pm.